---
title: '856'
chatgpt_link: https://chat.openai.com/share/29f7672d-4151-4f35-b76a-e6c245c7d3f6
author: Christopher Schoeder
date: 2023-DEC-13
layout: subarticle
permalink: /edi/856/
parent: Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
has_children: false
---

**EDI 856**, also known as an Advance Ship Notice (ASN), is an electronic data interchange (EDI) document used in <a href="/glossery/supply-chain">supply chain management</a> to communicate detailed information about a <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment.</a> The **EDI 856** transaction set provides a standardized format for the transmission of data related to the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipments</a> of goods from a supplier or manufacturer to a <a href="/parties/customers">customer</a> or retailer.

The **EDI 856** document typically includes information such as:

- **Shipment identification:** This includes unique identifiers for the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment,</a> such as the bill of lading number, purchase order number, or <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipments</a> tracking number.

- **Shipment details:** It provides information about the contents of the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment,</a> including the item number, description, quantity, weight, and dimensions of each item or product being shipped.

- **Packaging information:** It includes details about the packaging used for the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment,</a> such as the type of packaging (e.g., pallets, cartons), the number of packages, and the type of unit load.

- **Transportation information:** This section contains information about the carrier responsible for transporting the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment,</a> including the carrier's name, identification number, and the estimated time of arrival (ETA).

- **Routing information:** It specifies the routing instructions, such as the origin and destination <a href="/locations/">locations,</a>  the transportation method (e.g., truck, air, rail), and any special handling instructions.

By transmitting an **EDI 856** document, the supplier or manufacturer provides the <a href="/parties/customers">customer</a> or retailer with advance notification of a pending <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment,</a> allowing them to plan their receiving processes accordingly. This helps streamline logistics operations, improves inventory management, and enables better coordination between trading partners in the <a href="/glossery/supply-chain">supply chain.</a>
