---
title: '940'
chatgpt_link: https://chat.openai.com/share/199a08ee-2e6c-4cf0-98e1-6469e6c98ed4
author: Christopher Schoeder
date: 2023-DEC-13
layout: subarticle
permalink: edi/940
parent: Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
has_children: false
---

**EDI 940** refers to the <a href="https://x12.org/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">X12 Transaction Set</a>, specifically known as the "Warehouse Shipping Order." EDI stands for Electronic Data Interchange, which is a standardized electronic format for exchanging business documents between different entities, such as suppliers, manufacturers, and retailers.

The **EDI 940** transaction set, Warehouse Shipping Order, is used to communicate information related to the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipments</a> of goods from a warehouse to a specific destination. It provides details about the products being shipped, their quantities, packaging instructions, and shipping instructions.

Here are some of the key elements typically found in an **EDI 940** transaction:

- **Header Information:** Contains general information about the transaction, such as the sender and receiver's identification, date and time of transmission, and a unique control number.

- **Shipment Information:** Includes details about the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipment,</a> such as the <a href="/glossery/shipments">shipments</a> identification number, shipping method, expected ship date, and the requested delivery date.

- **Item Detail:** Describes the individual items being shipped, including their item numbers, quantities, unit of measure, and any special instructions for handling or packaging.

- **Pack Information:** Specifies how the items are packed, such as the number of cartons, pallets, or containers used, as well as their dimensions and weight.

- **Transportation Detail:** Provides information about the transportation <a href="/carriers/">carrier,</a> including their name, identification number, and any special routing instructions.

- **Summary Section:** Contains summary information, such as the total number of items shipped, the total weight, and any additional charges or allowances.

The **EDI 940** transaction set streamlines the communication process between trading partners involved in the shipping and receiving of goods, enabling more efficient and accurate exchange of information.
